Difference between position::fixed and position::sticky



position: fixed always fixates an element to some position within its scrolling container or the viewport. No matter how you scroll its container, it will remain in the exact same position and not affect the flow of other elements within the container.

position: sticky basically acts like position: relative until an element is scrolled beyond a specific offset, in which case it turns into position: fixed, causing the element to "stick" to its position instead of being scrolled out of view. It eventually gets unstuck as it gets scrolled back toward its original position. At least, that's how I understand it in theory.

Fixed Position:

An element with fixed position is displayed with respect to the viewport or the browser window itself. It always stays in the same place even if the page is scrolled.

It does not effect the flow of other elements in the page ie doesn't occupy any specific space(just like position: absolute).

If it is defined inside some other container (div with or without relative/absolute position), still it is positioned with respect to the browser and not that container. (Here it differs with position: absolute).

Sticky Position:

An element with sticky position is positioned based on the user's scroll position. As @Boltclock mentioned it basically acts like position: relative until an element is scrolled beyond a specific offset, in which case it turns into position: fixed. When it is scrolled back it gets back to its previous (relative) position.

It effects the flow of other elements in the page ie occupies a specific space on the page(just like position: relative).

If it is defined inside some container, it is positioned with respect to that container. If the container has some overflow(scroll), depending on the scroll offset it turns into position:fixed.

fixed position will not occupy any space in the body, so the next element(eg: an image) will be behind the fixed element.

sticky position occupies the space, so the next element will not be hidden behind it.